if you've been watching this channel for
a long time you'll remember my old motto
it ain't deep but it's real this is as
real as it gets for me the last time I
was in Toronto Canada I sat down to
dinner with a white guy this is a guy
with a PhD he's a university professor
he fancies himself a highly educated
person and he said to me that he
considered Taiwan to be a country built
on genocide I grew up in Canada I
currently live in temple and my
immediate reaction was when I go to the
gym every day I see indigenous people
I see the indigenous people they work
out at my gym when you go to the gym
here in Toronto do you see any
indigenous people do you go to a gym
that has creeped eople that has a jib
way people that has mohawk people that
has Iroquois people that has Cayuga
people deserve does your gym have Inuit
people do you see them at the gym you
know now I went on to say something a
little bit more intelligent and composed
but that was my kind of sputtering
enraged statement right now I used to
live in Toronto obviously I'm not
claiming there were zero indigenous
people in Toronto it's shockingly close
to zero but yes you will see native
people once in a while in the
neighborhood I grew up in there was one
public library that had a little sign up
saying that they had a special
collection of books for indigenous
people and there was one community
center kind of outreach center that had
to sign up in a First Nations language
all right so I knew there were these
little ghostly reminders that somewhere
hidden away in the corners of our
society there were native people there
were indigenous people right but not not
at your gym they may go to some gym
right but not this guy's gym this guy's
a reasonably wealthy
affluence highly educated white person
living in Toronto my claim isn't that
there's no gym anywhere in Toronto where
you'd see the native people the point is
at the gym you go to you don't see any
native people right
I go to I go to the most expensive gym
in my town in Taiwan okay and our native
people are indigenous people I see them
at my gym and you know what you can tell
right away when you're lifting weights
next to them that they're not ethnically
the same as the later waves of people
who came and settled this island think
they do have a colonial history they do
have a history of shall we say ethnic
tensions and even massacres but I would
not state the island of Taiwan as a
genocide all history in the same sense
that Canada and Australia do it's a very
different sort of balance that ended up
being struck here of course that's not
to say I want a whitewash or glorify the
history of this island but yeah these
kinds of things they really matter or
what can I tell you they matter to me
what I feel I've seen happen within my
lifetime is this number one I lived
through the rise and fall of
multicultural policy in Canada official
state sanctioned multiculturalism people
pretended it would solve the racial
tensions in our society and then it fell
apart because of course it was
fundamentally a way to avoid addressing
or solving the racial tensions in our
side okay there is no way you can
compensate for indigenous genocide the
extinction of native peoples and their
land rights in their language there's no
way you can compensate for that by
celebrating Korean immigrants and Korean
culture by having a special day for the
Chinese Dragon Boat Festival and
celebrating Chinese immigrant culture
right there's no way you can compensate
for the history of
slavery and genocide and the extinction
of those languages and their people by
showing how much you appreciate Jamaican
culture which very much was a product of
that period of government
multiculturalism in Canada so
multiculturalism was it a solution to
our ethnic problems to our colonial
history in Canada the Canada the most
remote and worthless appendage of the
globe spanning British Empire or was it
just a distraction from the ethnic
problems right the academic response to
the history of black slavery
african-american slavery again a whole
African slavery throughout the British
Empire through it all your peanut butter
Spanish French okay the academic
response to that was well underway in
the 1970s and I think we're seeing the
political manifestation of that in the
demand for reparations only really
emerging now all kinds of different
reasons there have been all kinds of
different distractions in the last 50
years
let's not attempt to summarize that
history the academic literature on First
Nations slavery the academic literature
on the enslavement and genocide of the
native people American Indians whatever
you want to say
it's just emerged in English within like
the last five years and in case you
think I haven't paying attention I was
enrolled as a student of Cree and a Jib
way languages of First Nations languages
in native languages at First Nations
University Canada and I went to their
library and looked at every book on the
shelf and I went to the National
Archives in Montreal and looked at every
book in the shelf I really did survey
the state of the literature of what had
been published just so many years ago
and now you know like 2015 to present
after that all was part of my past after
that
ended in failure my attempt to learn the
state of those named languages now I see
this sequence of books coming out one of
them was called the other slavery
another one is called surviving genocide
and a whole sequence of specialized
studies some being the you know the
earlier Caribbean period some of them
being America after American
independence some of them being British
Empire different emphases different
focus a couple of these books of bought
of purchase now two or three I did a
book for you already of the other
slavery you guys might remember ok
others on the internet I just looked up
interviews with the authors that sort of
thing and one of the reasons why I'm not
interest in all these books is that of
course each one is kind of repeating the
same historical material cover things
we're seeing now will break through on
the academic side that way and I feel
like the mainstream media with artistic
products like the The Watchmen series
the new TV show The Watchmen HBO I feel
like that's still kind of catching up
with the political implications of you
know really the the black liberation
struggle the the particular form of the
black liberation struggle that started
in the 1970s and it's only now really
being voiced as a demand for for
reparations of course of course people
talk about the 1970s 1980s don't get me
wrong but it's maybe only now that's
starting to get traction guys when these
ideas you know there's this old canard
people say there's no force in the world
that can stop an idea whose time has
come right now finally Germany is
looking at paying reparations for its
colonies in Africa
alright so crimes against humanity
including genocide Josiah and other
massacres back when Germany had colonies
in mainland Africa so these weren't
black people taken back to Germany but
in Africa and those are fully
one hundred years ago all right people
are putting together the pieces and wait
a minute
if reparations were paid to the Japanese
Japanese who were put into internment
camps for just a couple of years why was
it that the liberated slaves that the
you know descendants of African slaves
why is it that they weren't given
reparations okay that's a profound and
meaningful question in itself it's now
got to be addressed but the time is
gonna come maybe not today maybe not
tomorrow but soon when the logic of this
same question is going to have to be
applied to the fundamental historical
process of genocide and enslavement that
has utterly defined the creation of the
United States Canada and to varying
extents the whole of Central America
Latin America and so on right and it's
not really like there were a whole bunch
of different possible answers here okay
the nature of that genocide is so far
advanced that it can't be redressed by
turning the clock backwards right it
can't it's not a problem that can be
solved through conservation because the
actual culture you be talking about
conserving has really already been
destroyed it's going to have to be in
historical crime an atrocity that is
redressed through creation through
creativity not through mere conservation
okay
when you're talking about languages that
are either actually extinct or on the
brink of extinction if you want to bring
them back to being spoken in the modern
era you're not talking about conserving
a language anymore
you're talking about almost recreating
language right you talk about devoting
the resources so that we actually have
newspapers that are sold in Cree or a
Jib way or Mohawk or you know maybe in a
new a new language created that bridges
some of the minor gaps and
dialect between East Cree and West Greek
or between og Cree and you know planes a
jib way and this kind of thing you know
whatever it is so that this actually
becomes a language people see on stop
signs on those smoking signs on the
Front's of newspapers so that instead of
celebrating a kind of phony
multiculturalism that says hey we have
Chinese restaurants and we have Korean
restaurants and we have Jamaican
restaurants there are four were not
racist therefore we're not responsible
for this horrible history of slavery and
genocide that no no no you fundamentally
re-examine the consequences of
colonialism Genesis a 12-8 the challenge
of multiculturalism is not ensuring that
the the ethnically mixed colonists all
get to divide up the pie equally that
they all get to divide up the spoils of
war the benefits of the conquest and
slave maana side of the native people
all right
we're instead the question is Wow
how can we read ress that the total
devastation of these people their
culture even now the traces of their
language and guys I've done the research
not just the book learning the
statistics you're gonna see if you
google it that tell you oh there are
still a hundred thousand people who
speak at you boy they're all they're all
[ __ ] all right
look up right now on YouTube a recent
powwow in your area okay like did this
recently start you can you can look up
how while Michigan here on YouTube we
can look up powwow Saskatchewan the
singing the chanting there are no lyrics
those songs historically if you go back
and read anthropological studies and
literature okay they had lyrics in the
native language they weren't just
chanting nonsense words yeah they play
the drums that chant they dance but they
actually had lyrics in their own
language and what you see today again
and again at
at one powwow after another at one
drumming ceremony after another in one
sweat lodge after another in one you
know from one location to another what
you see are young people who have need
of ancestry who have need of blood and
they go through the motions of playing
these sacred songs they behave as if
their chanting is if they're singing a
song but they're just they're just
repeating syllables it's just like heya
heya
they aren't saying anything in any
language because the actual ability to
speak or sing or memorize and recite the
language really has been lost when
people do surveys like the census they
just ask people oh can you speak the
native language there's a sense of pride
people have and saying yes they are a
Jib way therefore they speak a jib way
where it's it's a sense of pride but if
you actually send it linguists true
linguists who do speak the language to
go out and interview people and
establish whether or not they can speak
language or whether or not they can just
say like hello to their grandmother in
the limit they can just say five words
or something you know guess what the
findings are are very fundamentally
different all right
the ultimate tragedy here whether we're
talking about reparations for American
descendants of slaves or we're talking
about reparations for Native people is
that there are some problems you can
never fix with money whether you talk
about black Americans who are descended
from slaves or indigenous people when
you're looking at trillions of dollars
when you look at the amount of money
America spent recently conquering
Afghanistan and Iraq like when you're
looking at numbers in the trillions
either well what if hypothetically one
trillion dollars had not been spent
conquering Iraq and Afghanistan what if
one trillion dollars had gone into this
problem whether for African Americans or
Native people both you could you could
say yeah you know what that's enough
money that could have really made a
difference like you know if Bill Clinton
had done that then what situation would
be we be you know
sure there there'd be there'd be dead
there would be an economic consequence
from it but there's debt and economic
consequences for what the American
government actually did with that join
Dawgs
but I think we all know the very nature
of distributing money nobody can ever
give you enough money to buy your
culture back nobody can give you enough
money to buy your religion back when
Christian missionaries have destroyed
indigenous religion nobody can ever give
you enough money to buy your language
back especially not when every trace of
your language has been erased except for
a couple of books that were written by
Christian missionaries who were
themselves employed in the act of
destroying your culture and religion
right nobody nobody can give you enough
money to buy your dignity back but what
you can do is give people political
power you can give them seats in the
Senate and give them seats in parliament
you can give them seats in government
you can give them a controlling interest
in the creative process of now trying to
recover now trying to propound some kind
of new indigenous culture probably for
African Americans too what's the future
of their of their part of you know
Western civilization it's not that they
want to recapture something that was
lost
prior to slavery it's that they want
something new and something better right
and whatever is gonna be sorted out
whether it's reparations or otherwise it
has to be fundamentally a
forward-looking rather than conservative
force in society right who's gonna ask
those questions and who's gonna answer
them
that is a challenge that the British
tradition of democracy has absolutely
never faced has absolutely never done
with all right when they paid
reparations to the Japanese people who
were interned in California during World
War two there was absolutely no question
of you know the Japanese being granted a
seat in government other than having a
bigger role in even the state
legislature let alone through there is
no question of the Japan a'f occasion of
American culture no no no no nobody had
any was there was no question of
creating a future for the Japanese
language in America no not comparable in
these ways okay one of the indigenous
languages of California is called Yurok
you rock with a why why you are okay
right it's directly related to the
indigenous languages we have in Canada
it's an algonquian language so it's
related to create a Ghibli believe it or
not all right it just barely exists it
just barely survives at the mouth of one
River in California were one tribe is
struggling to keep that language alive
okay will the day come when you put your
credit card into a bank machine in
California and there's the list of
languages you can choose from and Yurok
is one of those languages is there gonna
be a future when these people have an
integral and important role in the
identity of your state California and of
course you could ask that question about
the Mohawk and the Korean native way in
their respective states and provinces as
you go across the map all right is that
what we're moving towards or is everyone
just going to accept under one excuse or
another an inexorable process toward
absolute genocide in many ways the
inventor of the uniquely American form
of racism was Thomas Jefferson
Jefferson's obsession was with
eliminating African Americans and Native
Americans from the writing of history
he personally believed that democracy
could not exist or could not survive his
idea of democracy if they didn't
completely extinguish and remove black
people and native people from from that
history right it's the ultimate
absurdity it's ridiculous I end this
video with absolutely no hope that the
next generation is gonna do a better job
than the last one
I end this video with absolutely no hope
that the mistakes made in the name of
multiculturalism won't be repeated again
because the real poison of
multiculturalism is the idea that
everyone being equal is a pretext to
never address the grievances of any
particular group of people and that
dangerous delusion is with us still and
in 2019 it's more powerful than ever the
idea that well everybody's equal so how
could we bend the rules to solve this
problem with this particular group of
people take a look at historically black
universities in the United States in
America I've done this research recently
it's not worth describing what did take
a look at the reality of America's
historically black universities and now
take a look at the reality of the
American Indian colleges the indigenous
American universities if you didn't know
they were there google it they all have
Wikipedia articles you might be
surprised contrast that to the reality
of white American universities whether
you look at state colleges or Ivy League
colleges what have you right the reality
in 2019 is not that we're starting
addressing an equal population or
okay we're in a situation where we're
living in a hole created by the history
of the British Empire and a hole even in
our historical awareness created
precisely by the overt conspiracy of
ignorance fostered by people like Thomas
Jefferson